worn or frayed cables should be replaced
immediately here are the tools you'll
need for the job safety glasses winding
bars which are two steel bars one-half
inch in diameter and 14 to 18 inches
long a 1/2 inch wrench pliers a pair of
vise grips
masking tape a work lamp a stepladder
and two equal-sized wood blocks 2x4 to
keep the door from pinching your lamp
cord we'll start with the replacement of
a single cable this is important if
you're replacing a damaged or broken
cable it may be advisable to replace
both cables at the same time due to age
or condition of the other cable when
replacing a single cable you start by
releasing the cable from the cable drum
loosen the set screws and remove the
cable from the drum then release the
cable at the cable anchor do this by
removing the cotter pin and the cable
anchor pin remove the cable and discard
it when ready
insert the thimble end of the
replacement cable into the cable anchor
then replace the cable anchor pin and
the cotter pin carry the new cable to
the top of the door and thread it
between the header and the top of the
door panel and tape it in this position
unlock and raise the door be very
careful when you do this place the equal
size wooden blocks on the threshold go
inside with your tools stepladder and
work lamp and lower the door onto your
wooden blocks this is important the
spring is under high tension and could
cause severe injury repairs and
adjustments must be made by trained
service personnel when ready fully
insert one of the steel rods into the
most convenient hole in the counter
balance spring winding plug raise the
bar enough to insert the second steel
rod release the tension on the rods so
that the second rod is resting against
the top panel of your door insert the
cable end of the new cable into the slot
thread the cable onto the
move nearest the slot and turn the drum
toward you continue turning the drum
until all the slack is taken out making
sure the cable is following in its
proper groove if your cable is not
properly wrapped around the drum the
cable will run out of space on the drum
and as the door is raised it could cause
the cable to jump off the drum maintain
tension on the cable and slide the cable
drum on the counterbalance shaft against
the bearing this is an important step to
ensure proper alignment with the drum
against the bearing and tension applied
to the new cable tighten both set screws
with the first drum now secure readjust
the tension on the undamaged cable by
following the same procedure make sure
it is positioned against the
counterbalance shaft bearing then
retighten the set screws both cables
should have equal tension to change out
the second cable repeat this procedure
you complete the cable replacement by
releasing the spring tension use caution
rotating the counterbalance assembly and
drums to far
may cause cables to jump off the cable
drums rotate the assembly far enough to
allow the removal of the winding bar if
you need to replace a cable drum spring
assembly shaft or the bearing assembly
you'll need to remove the counterbalance
assembly first begin by unlocking and
raising the door place equal size wood
blocks on the threshold go inside with
your tools and work lamp and lower the
door onto your wooden blocks this is
important the spring is under high
tension and could cause severe injury
repairs and adjustments must be made by
trained service personnel when ready
fully insert one of the steel rods into
the most convenient hole in the counter
balance spring winding plug raise the
bar enough to insert the second steel
rod release the tension on the rods so
that the second rod is resting against
the top panel of your door loosen the
set screws on both the left and right
cable drums unwind the cable and tape
the end to the inside of the top panel
repeat with a second cable loosen the
set screws now rotate the steel rod and
the counter balance spring winding plug
until all tension has been relieved
loosen and then remove the two bolts
from the spring anchor bracket then
loosen and remove the two bolts from the
bearing assembly to be replaced if
you're replacing a cable drum or shaft
bearing assembly you only have to remove
the bolts from one of the bearing
assemblies like this slide the
counterbalance shaft in the same
direction as the bearing you just
removed until it clears the bearing
assembly on the opposite side then take
down the free counterbalance assembly if
the anchor bracket is too close you'll
need to remove the two bolts from it
allowing you to remove the drum or
bearing assembly slide off the old cable
drum and reinstall the new cable drum if
you need to replace a cable drum please
note that they are specifically designed
and marked for use on the left or right
side you determine this from the inside
facing the door your right is the doors
right which is also the driver's side
your left is the doors left or the
passenger side with the counterbalance
down the shaft bearing assembly can be
easily removed and replaced also with
the counterbalance down a broken or
damaged spring assembly can be removed
and a new one installed like this
install the counterbalance assembly by
reversing this process refer to the
cable replacement section of this
program for the complete procedure to
reinstall the cables the next section
will guide you on installing and
rewinding a new spring